h1. Search Engine Notes

* Running on Ruby 1.9.2/3.
* Using "Picky":http://florianhanke.com/picky.
* Runs on Heroku (http://cocoapods.org).

h2. Developing

h3. Installation

* @git submodule update --init@
* @bundle install@
* @gem install foreman@

h3. Run locally with foreman

* @foreman check@
* @foreman start@

h3. Deploying to Heroku

* @git push heroku master@

h3. ENV variables

You need to set the HOOK_PATH env variable for the Github post-receive-hook (see below for more detail).

@heroku config:add HOOK_PATH=...@

We also do not load test or development.

@heroku config:add BUNDLE_WITHOUT="development:test"@

We tune some GC variables.

@heroku config:add RUBY_GC_HEAP_INIT_SLOTS=600000@

@heroku config:add RUBY_GC_HEAP_FREE_SLOTS=600000@

@heroku config:add RUBY_GC_HEAP_GROWTH_FACTOR=1.25@

@heroku config:add RUBY_GC_HEAP_GROWTH_MAX_SLOTS=300000@

h4. HOOK_PATH

We use one ENV variable (@HOOK_PATH@) to set the hook path we use in the Specs repo's post-receive-hook to update the search engine's index: @heroku config:add HOOK_PATH=some_garbled_hook_path@.
This calls an URL on the app which causes it to update the search engine index by downloading the Specs zip file and indexing from the unzipped content, replacing the old index.
(Note: It's not secure against brute force, man-in-the-middle etc., but a simple security to discourage DoS)

To change HOOK_PATH:

# @heroku config:add HOOK_PATH=some_other_garbled_hook_path@
# Update the post-receive-hook in the Specs repo to the new garbled path.

h3. Notes

We have enabled memory logging using the instructions from:

* @https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-runtime-metrics@

h3. Current Heroku Labs Features

=== App Features (search-cocoapods-org)
[ ] buildpack-env-arg    Add user config vars  as a third argument to buildpacks during slug compilation
[ ] http-request-id      Enables the Heroku-Request-ID header in requests and logs
[+] log-runtime-metrics  Emit dyno resource usage information into app logs
[ ] preboot              Provide seamless web dyno deploys
[ ] user-env-compile     Add user config vars to the environment during slug compilation
[ ] websockets           Experimental websockets support on herokuapp.com and custom domains

h3. Analytics

We use Google analytics to track API accesses.

h4. Identity

Property ID: UA-29866548-5

h4. Anatomy

Event tracking is structured as follows (https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/gajs/eventTrackerGuide#Anatomy):

* categories
* actions
* labels
* values (int)
* implicit count

h5. API content

Tracks events related to API content.

pods/search/query/total
pods/facets/query_string/-

h5. API structure

Tracks events related to which API is used.

pods/search-format/data&format/-

h5. Note

Currently we use Gabba, a synchronous GA tracker (https://github.com/hybridgroup/gabba/issues/12).
TODO Do asynchronous calls in a thread/process.